While many of her peers are preoccupied with the latest trends and popular music, 12-year-old Esona Lugabazi is passionate about indigenous music and plans to take over the baton from her late mentor, Dr Latozi Madosini Mpahleni. The youngster, now an accomplished uhadi (calabash resonated bow), umrhubhe (mouth-resonated bow) and isitolotolo (jaw harp) player, was discovered at school by the revered  Xhosa traditional music icon in their home village of Mkhankatho in Libode. Since Madosini  died, her young neighbour is now under the  wings of Madosini’s niece, Phumza Mpahleni, 42, who is nurturing her talent, hoping  she will become one of the youngsters who keep the legacy alive. When Madosini took ill, Esona composed a song titled Khanimncedeni Uyagula (Help her, she is sick), playing uhadi and accompanied by Phumza. The song calls for medical assistance for her ailing mentor. She  composed a second song Siyabulela Madosoni (We thank you, Madosini). She played both pieces at the funeral held last Saturday. When the Dispatch visited Esona at Madosini’s home,  she  became emotional when playing Khanimncedeni Uyagula, but  with encouragement from her  mother Siphokazi Seku-Lugabazi and Phumza,  continued with the song. “Granny died so early.  She was my mentor for just a short time. I wish I could have met her  years ago, but  she was always in Cape Town. But in  the short time with her I  learnt a lot and her spirit will  continue to be a guide,” she said. Esona called for the government, the music industry, traditional groups, schools, the private sector, heritage institutions and tertiary institutions to  promote indigenous music from preschool age. “The government must  promote and preserve this music and give us gigs  to ensure there is airplay of this music.  When people move to towns  they forget about this music which defines their roots. Indigenous music is not just singing but is spiritual and provokes one's spirituality.  I sometimes get the songs  in my dreams or a little voice sings them to me when walking  to school,” she said. Esona, who is in grade 8 at Sewushe High School in Upper Corhana outside Mthatha, said she had been in grade 7 at Mkhankatha Primary School when she met Madosini in September 2022. Esona wants to become a cardiologist to help people like Madosini. “I love African indigenous music and playing instruments, like uhadi, umrhubhe and isitolotolo.  I wish other children could be like me,” she said Her mother  is proud of her second-born child. “Esona also loves and sings gospel music beautifully.  In my church she is one of the lead singers.” Though Madosoni and Esona lived in the same neighbourhood, it was only in September 2022, when Madosini visited the Mkhankatho Primary School as part of her outreach programme to introduce her music to  local schools, that they met. Esona later made  a makeshift isitolotolo, and asked Madosini  to teach her. Madosini became emotional as this was the first time in her musical career that a  child from her village showed interest. Asked about playing at the funeral she said: “It was emotional and I was scared to play in front of so many people and cameras, but I am happy that I rendered her  goodbye and thank-you songs.” Phumza is determined to preserve her aunt’s legacy. She has  followed her aunt’s outreach programmes,  teaching the youth and making instruments. “I don’t want this music to die out. I want to teach this music in schools.  I am happy some youths are interested.” She said  Madosini’s largest fan base remained abroad. Locally only universities with strong music departments, like Rhodes University and the University of Cape Town, have shown interest in studying their music. “In overseas countries they are huge, but here at home they are small. Even the rural community and traditional groups have forsaken it and focused on other sounds. The government is doing very little to promote and preserve it,” Phumza said. DispatchLIVE