Expelled ANC member Carl Niehaus says he is in talks with former president Jacob Zuma, former ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule and tourism minister Lindiwe Sisulu to join his Radical Economic Transformation (RET) Movement. Niehaus launched the movement, which might  become a political party and contest elections, late last year after he  “resigned” from the ANC while appealing his expulsion. Speaking to IOL, the former Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association spokesperson claimed Zuma, Magashule and Sisulu were not opposed to his movement. “The degree to which they will become  involved and how they will participate is up to them. It would only be established once the NPO is rolled out.” Niehaus has a close relationship with Magashule and Zuma but they are yet to publicly support his movement. Sisulu’s spokesperson Steve Motale poured cold water  on Niehaus' claims, telling the publication the minister was not involved in his NPO. “She doesn’t have the luxury of playing and experimenting with the revolution. Everybody knows she is among the few authentic guardians left at the ANC,” said Motale. Last week, Niehaus announced  five new members of the movement. The steering committee/working board includes suspended ANC MP Mervyn Dirks, South African Truckers Association president Mary Phadi, former Qatar South African ambassador Faizel Moosa, businesswoman Siyalithatha Ilizwe and Nkosentsha Shezi, who is considered a long-time RET ambassador in KwaZulu-Natal. Niehaus said the committee  would manage the  rollout of the movement, which  would be free of “pettiness” and its logo would soon be unveiled. “We are hopeful our legal team will have finished the registration of the movement by the end of this week or early next week. “As soon as registration is finalised we will announce a date for a launch press conference, where the board members will be present to address the media and unveil the logo,” he said. The movement was engaging  the EFF as one of the “progressive forces” envisioned as supporting  it. “There are many other movements and associations that are advanced in radical economic transformation and deserve our engagement and attention,” he said. TimesLIVE