Respected Superintendent Clifton Kara is retiring after serving the Buffalo City traffic department and community for 27 years. Kara, 61, started off as a trainee traffic officer on December 27 1995. He began his career at the Braelyn licencing department and a year later went to Cape Town to complete a traffic officers diploma. On his return as a fully-fledged traffic officer, he performed his duties diligently, earning the respect of his colleagues. Though involved in many close calls with death, Kara said the job had been “a calling”. Sharing one of the life-threatening experiences he faced, he said: “I remember one evening, myself and a colleague arrested a drunk driver and he ran away. “We chased him and he hid in a tree. I wanted to spray him with teargas, but my colleague persuaded me not to. “We spoke to him and he complied but while driving to the police station, I saw him getting restless and on investigation, we discovered he had a magnum 45 pistol on him, and police records showed he was suspected of killing a person in Duncan Village.” Kara recalled another close call when he chased a suspect who had about 20 outstanding warrants of arrest “I grabbed him by his belt and we wrestled on the ground. “A shot went off next to his head, nearly killing him because his revolver had no safety catch.” Working his way through the ranks, Kara was promoted as an assistant superintendent in 2004. “In 2007, I acted in the post as superintendent of law enforcement until it was advertised, and I applied for the post. “In 2008, I was appointed. I had to manage and plan escorts of the president on short notice and the funeral of former president Nelson Mandela.” Affectionately known as Oom K, he is four years shy of the retirement age of 65. “I’ve been doing this job for almost three decades. It’s demanding, fast-paced and there’s a lot of pressure,” he said. “It’s time for me to spend time with my family and enjoy retirement while I’m still active.” He said he would miss meeting new people, working with his colleagues and helping restore law and order in the country. “The crime in our country is rife, I hope the younger generation will restore the dignity of the country’s people and ensure the safety of people is prioritised. “I would first of all like to thank my Lord and Saviour for the opportunity he gave me, and management and the staff of the traffic department who put their trust in me, which resulted in the  fantastic relationship we had over the years.” Describing Kara as having been dedicated to serving the community, BCM spokesperson Bathandwa Diamond said he would “leave a huge void within this department”. DispatchLIVE 