Washie  champion Monwabisi Ntozini’s dream of winning more running events is evaporating because he cannot even afford a proper pair of running shoes. Ntozini, a gardener who jogs 20kms to work  from Ncerha to Kidd’s Beach, will miss the Two Oceans marathon in April and is struggling to raise money to enter the Comrades Marathon. The running shoes he won at the Washie  have holes in them and are his only pair. Despite  winning the 161km race from Port Alfred to East London in July 2022, there was no prize money. Running brings 42-year-old Ntozini much joy. He spends his time now training  20 children from his community in Ncerha. He is inspired to teach the youth about the discipline, focus and dedication needed in long distance running. “I grew up on a farm where my parents  worked. I played rugby and boxed and when I moved to Ncerha I  found my place in athletics,” he told the Dispatch. “My love for running  began in 2018, when I came into contact with mentor and fellow Ncerha resident Mcebisi Yose, also a former Washie  champion. “Yose encouraged and supported me when I started running marathons;  this sport has now become part of me. “In my village I have children  I  train and  support and I want to keep this sport alive so it can be passed on from generation to generation. “I  train 20 children;  they often train during weekends to accommodate their busy school schedules. “My recipe for success in marathons is to train hard, be disciplined and dedicated. That is what has kept me going.” He said  his employer encouraged and supported him and believed he could achieve more. “The running and gym gear I have was donated by runners from Kidd’s Beach. The shoes I wore when I won were worn out then and  still are. “I don’t have enough time to do my runs so I usually  jog to work which  keeps me fit and ready for the long runs over weekends.” “On weekends, I participate in a long run which is usually 60km. Afterwards I take part in the Kidd’s Beach park run.” Mentor  Yose said. “I recruited Ntozini in  2018 to join our  running club. I  often passed him on the road  on his way to work in Kidd’s Beach. “I  managed to convince him to join, and when we launched a running club, he was the first to join and has never left. “We are  disappointed that he has does not have sponsors yet after he  managed to win the prestigious Washie title. “We thought by now  he would have attracted sponsors to help him participate and bring home more titles, as he is from a less fortunate background. “We  hope to get more sponsors.  Someone paid half the Comrades  fee of R1,200. “We hope to get more so that he can participate  in future competitions. “It is unfortunate that he will not be able to take part in  Two Oceans since we were not able to raise  the fee. “When we have time we  run long distances of at least six hours together so that he learns  to cope. “Ntozini trains hard and even his training sneakers have worn out. “It breaks my heart  that I cannot afford to buy him a new pair.” DispatchLIVE