Kaizer Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane disputes  his team have a problem breaking down opposition sides who defend in a low block. Amakhosi meet Maritzburg United in their Nedbank Cup last 32 match at Pietermaritzburg's Harry Gwala Stadium on Friday night. A low block, when teams sit deep and arrange themselves in a defensive block of four defenders, two defensive midfielders and the wingers also withdrawn, requires aggression and commitment of numbers forward to break down. On Sunday, Chiefs were unable to  break down TS Galaxy in their 0-0 DStv Premiership draw at Mbombela Stadium, especially in the second half when the Rockets were reduced to 10 men and set themselves up to defend low. It was put to Zwane that Chiefs, attempting to this season reinstall the expansive football  that was once their hallmark, have struggled to break down teams applying such tactics. “I don’t think we have a problem with teams applying low-block tactics. We played against many where we managed to penetrate and create scoring opportunities. We were just unfortunate not to take them," he said. “Many teams have realised they can’t just play an open game against us because we would punish them. But it tells you we are in the right direction when comparing where we were and where we are. “Previously, teams would play pound for pound against us, believing they can beat Chiefs. Of late, even the coach of Galaxy [Sead Ramović] said, ‘Coach, we had to sit back, we didn’t have a choice’. Actually they did that from the first half, when you look at the chances we created. “The games you mention, look at how many chances we created. And in most of them it’s just a lapse of concentration when we concede. “When we force those teams to make mistakes or [we penetrate] through combination play or being aggressive in front of goal, we just have this poor decision-making that lets us down. “But we’re not going to give up on our players. I think they’re doing very well.” Maritzburg have shown signs of a revival since the return of Fadlu Davids to the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands team during the World Cup break. “They have been doing very well. They were just unfortunate to concede a goal in referee’s optional time and not get maximum points,” Zwane said, referring to United's 1-1 home DStv Premiership draw against AmaZulu on Friday night. After three wins in a row under Davids, Maritzburg lost 1-0 away against Chippa United, then drew against Usuthu. “But it’s going to be a different ball game altogether because of the approach, because of knowing coach Fadlu. He’s also one of the good tacticians, a very good planner. “And you look at their squad too. They have changed the approach in how he started and how they are playing now. So it’s not going to be an easy one for us.” After three defeats in succession, Chiefs beat Royal AM 2-0 at home, then drew against Galaxy.